Add documentation page for `Pressable` component (#2992)
software-mansion/react-native-gesture-handler: docs/docs/components/pressable.mdx

---
id: pressable
title: Pressable
sidebar_label: Pressable
---

import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';
import GifGallery from '@site/components/GifGallery';

<GifGallery>
  <img src={useBaseUrl('gifs/pressable.gif')} width="70%" />
</GifGallery>

:::info
This component is a drop-in replacement for the `Pressable` component.
:::

> `Pressable` is a component that can detect various stages of tap, press and hover interactions on any of its defined children.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`Pressable` is a component that can detect various stages of tap, press and hover interactions on any of its children.
```

I know it's the same as in the react native docs, but I don't get the `defined` part. WDYT?

Author: I agree, it's not really necessary. @m-bert wdyt?

Reviewer 2: Let's remove that 😉

### Usage:

To use `Pressable`, import it in the following way:

```js
import { Pressable } from 'react-native-gesture-handler';
```

## Properties

### `children`

> either children or a render prop that receives a boolean reflecting whether

Reviewer: ```suggestion
either children or a render function that receives a boolean reflecting whether
```

the component is currently pressed.

### `style`

either view styles or a function that receives a boolean reflecting whether
the component is currently pressed and returns view styles.

### `onPress`

called after `onPressOut` when a single tap gesture is detected.

### `onPressIn`

called before `onPress` when a touch is engaged.

### `onPressOut`

called before `onPress` when a touch is released.

### `onLongPress`

called immidiately after pointer has been down for at least `delayLongPress` milliseconds (`500` ms by default).

> after `onLongPress` has been called, `onPressOut` will be called as soon as the pointer is lifted and `onPress` will no longer be called at all.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
after `onLongPress` has been called, `onPressOut` will be called as soon as the pointer is lifted, and `onPress` will not be called.
```

Author: I'd prefer something more like:
```suggestion
after `onLongPress` has been called, `onPressOut` will be called as soon as the pointer is lifted and `onPress` will no longer be called until the end of the gesture.
```

I think a simple `will not be called.` may be confusing - can be interpreted as `will not be called at this moment`, but what should be implied here is that as soon as `onLongPress` gets called, `onPress` will no longer have a chance to be called until the person lifts all their fingers and placed them down again.

Reviewer: I see, `will not be called at all` then?

Author: Sure, that sounds the best out of all of them

### `cancelable`

whether a press gesture can be interrupted by a parent gesture such as a
scroll event. Defaults to `true`.

### `onHoverIn` (Web only)

called when pointer is hovering over the element.

### `onHoverOut` (Web only)

called when pointer stops hovering over the element.

### `delayHoverIn` (Web only)

duration to wait after hover in before calling `onHoverIn`.

### `delayHoverOut` (Web only)

duration to wait after hover out before calling `onHoverOut`.

### `delayLongPress`

duration (in milliseconds) from `onPressIn` before `onLongPress` is called.

### `disabled`

whether the `Pressable` behavior is disabled.

### `hitSlop`

> additional distance outside of this view in which a press is detected and `onPressIn` is triggered.

Reviewer: Would be nice to mention what is the type of this prop. It reads as if only numbers are supported, but you can also pass a `Rect` here.

Author: Which one do you prefer?
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/0a9d1933-3a6a-4c7c-a2f6-07898e1f56b6)
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/ef190800-7310-4b35-9db5-35331d86c98f)

I think the first one makes it easier to see that `Rect` is a clickable link.

Reviewer: +1 for the second one

### `pressRetentionOffset`

> additional distance outside of this view (or `hitSlop` if present) in which a touch is considered a

Reviewer: Same

press before `onPressOut` is triggered.

### `android_disableSound` (Android only)

if `true`, doesn't play system sound on touch.

### `android_ripple` (Android only)

> enables the Android ripple effect and configures its color, radius and other parameters.

Reviewer: Same

---
id: pressable
title: Pressable
sidebar_label: Pressable
---

import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';
import GifGallery from '@site/components/GifGallery';

<GifGallery>
  <img src={useBaseUrl('gifs/pressable.gif')} width="70%" />
</GifGallery>

> :::info
> This component is a drop-in replacement for the `Pressable` component, rewritten using `Gesture Handler`.
> :::

Reviewer 2: Do we need that information? And if we do, I don't think we have to say that it was rewritten using Gesture Handler - it should be pretty obvious.

```suggestion
:::info
This component is a drop-in replacement for the `Pressable` component.
:::
```

Author: With this one I tried to follow `Reanimated Swipeable` documentation which features almost identical info box:
https://github.com/software-mansion/react-native-gesture-handler/blob/673e037b977fa586ac3ada235ee501b91b4e2320/docs/docs/components/reanimated_swipeable.md?plain=1#L15

`Pressable` is a component that can detect various stages of tap, press and hover interactions on any of its defined children.

### Usage:

To use `Pressable`, import it in the following way:

```js
import { Pressable } from 'react-native-gesture-handler';
```

## Properties

### `children`

either children or a render prop that receives a boolean reflecting whether
the component is currently pressed.

### `style`

either view styles or a function that receives a boolean reflecting whether
the component is currently pressed and returns view styles.

### `onPress`

called after `onPressOut` when a single tap gesture is detected.

### `onPressIn`

called before `onPress` when a touch is engaged.

### `onPressOut`

called before `onPress` when a touch is released.

### `onLongPress`

called immidiately after pointer has been down for at least `delayLongPress` milliseconds (`500` ms by default).

after `onLongPress` has been called, `onPressOut` will be called as soon as the pointer is lifted and `onPress` will no longer be called at all.

### `cancelable`

whether a press gesture can be interrupted by a parent gesture such as a

> scroll event. Defaults to true.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
scroll event. Defaults to `true`.
```

### `onHoverIn` (Web only)

called when pointer is hovering over the element.

### `onHoverOut` (Web only)

called when pointer stops hovering over the element.

### `delayHoverIn` (Web only)

> :::note
> this prop is not present in the original pressable's React Native documentation.
> :::

Reviewer 2: I don't think we need those admonitions

```suggestion
```

Author: I agree, removed

duration to wait after hover in before calling `onHoverIn`.

### `delayHoverOut` (Web only)

> :::note
> this prop is not present in the original pressable's React Native documentation.
> :::

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

duration to wait after hover out before calling `onHoverOut`.

### `delayLongPress`

duration (in milliseconds) from `onPressIn` before `onLongPress` is called.

### `disabled`

whether the `Pressable` behavior is disabled.

### `hitSlop`

additional distance outside of this view in which a press is detected and `onPressIn` is triggered.

### `pressRetentionOffset`

additional distance outside of this view (or `hitSlop` if present) in which a touch is considered a
press before `onPressOut` is triggered.

### `android_disableSound` (Android only)

> if true, doesn't play system sound on touch.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
if `true`, doesn't play system sound on touch.
```
